[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Located 7,972 feet above sea
level in the mountains of Peru
sits Machu Picchu
Temple complex,
often referred to as the
Lost City of the Inca.
Machu Picchu is an astounding
feat of engineering
and believed to have been
inhabited around 1420 to 1530.
But who else inhabited
this site long
before the Inca
civilization began building
upon these foundational
wonders, when was it built,
and who shaped these megalithic
foundations have challenged
alternative researchers
and scientists?
Evidence from several areas
of this sacred mountaintop
point to a pre-diluvian
interstellar connection.
As with all the legendary
relics on this planet,
this one contains many secrets.
What were our ancient ancestors
doing at this sacred site
before the legendary
end of the world?
>> When we think of the
mysteries of ancient
civilizations in South
America, inevitably,
Machu Picchu comes to mind.
And even today, it remains
one of the most mysterious
of the ancient sites
in the Southern Andes
because the more
that is revealed
and the more we discover,
the more mysterious the site
becomes.
Hiram Bingham is the
man from Yale University
that we say discovered
Machu Picchu in 1911.
Although, it was already
known to the locals,
he discovered it for
the Western world.
This site that was largely
overgrown and under the jungle
canopy, he could see portions
of Machu Picchu poking up
above the canopy.
It's right on the
edge of a rainforest,
so it is typically very
humid and very warm.
And that is why there was so
much overgrowth that was there.
And the first part
of the excavation
was to clear that growth.
They chose to do
it through fire.
So in 1912, the site
today that is Machu Picchu
was burned to
reveal just how much
and how extensive
the site really is.
And this is where the
mysteries really began.
From a geologic perspective,
the architecture
and the way that
Machu Picchu was built
and where it's situated
is fascinating.
>> When I went to
Machu Picchu in 2017,
what's very interesting is I saw
evidence of ancient structures
underneath what's there now.
So this tells me what I've
seen all over the world,
the same thing, ancient cultures
built something megalithic
and then another culture
comes after them, built
something else on top of that.
And the higher you go as you're
coming closer to modern era,
you find that the
structure becomes smaller
and smaller and smaller.
Now Machu Picchu is still an
amazing feat of technology.
However, there is
evidence there that
beneath what we
see with our eyes,
there is another
structure underneath that
that's even older and more
megalithic, leading to the fact
that these Incans actually
stumbled into that area
and inherited what
was already there.
It doesn't mean that they didn't
gain any knowledge by being
there, but initially,
that area was
built by a culture even
far more ancient than them.
>> What impresses are the
stones used to build the city.
The working of the stones appear
unusual for an Inca knowledge.
The blocks are made of
granite containing quartzite.
That is one of the hardest
materials in nature.
And these blocks have
an average weight
of 50 tons that were
cut and put together
in such a precise
way that was totally
unknown to the
local civilization.
Archeological evidences
show that the Inca
didn't have precise device
to manage the granite.
That is why Machu
Picchu is an enigma.
But who built the city,
and why the city was built,
and what was its
original function?
>> Machu Picchu is clearly one
of the most important sites
on the planet.
It's really quite unique.
Its placement within
the landscape,
within the sacred valley,
all the beautiful mountains
and scenery around
it, but it's really
what's built into it which
is the most important
and especially the megalithic
aspect, the earlier
foundation of the site, which
was later adopted by the Inca.
>> Speculation on what
this sacred site was used
for in our ancient past is
full of myth and legend.
Several areas of
this temple complex
seem to have been constructed
by the Inca empire,
but the question
is, why did they
build all of the smaller
stone walls and corridors
to encase the ancient
megalithic temple monuments?
Heroes on a spiritual
journey were surely
tested as they made their way
from the coasts of the South
Pacific and climbed to nearly 1
and 1/2 miles above sea level.
But why was this sacred location
deep in the mountains of Peru
chosen by our ancient
ancestors before the chaos
began in the atmosphere?
>> Machu Picchu is
built in a fault zone.
And it is built on the lower
portion of a fault zone,
literally on top of faults.
And the thinking
from the engineers
today is that this may
have been intentional
because those faults allow
for drainage from the water,
as it's a rainforest,
draining away from the site
rather than the site being
mired in puddles of water
in the rainy season.
There are over 200
buildings in Machu Picchu
proper, and more are still being
excavated as more of the site
is being revealed
from undergrowth.
But of those 200 sites,
what we begin to see
is that the architecture
is so very, very different
because it appears that
Machu Picchu is not
built all at one time.
There was a portion that
is very sophisticated, very
sophisticated stonework,
similar to what we
see in other parts
of Peru and what
we see in Egypt, large massive
stone blocks that fit only
where they are fitting with
the stone next to them.
They could not
fit anywhere else,
with intricate detail
between the stones.
There is less than 1/1000
of an inch tolerance
and there's no mortar holding
these stones together.
What engineers have found
is that not only are
they intricately
interlocked, but they also
are always built at an angle.
There's an offset to vertical.
There are no vertical walls in
this old part of Machu Picchu.
And the reason is
because by building
at the offset with these
interlocking blocks,
it makes them earthquake proof.
And this is one of the reasons
in a geologic fault zone, where
there are earthquakes, why
these buildings have remained
for as long as they have.
And this is the oldest
part of Machu Picchu.
Then there are other
parts of Machu Picchu
that are obviously more recent.
And just as we see on
the Giza Plateau in Egypt
and throughout the rest
of Egypt, when the newer
architecture was attempted,
whoever was attempting
it did not have the technology
to replicate the sophistication
in the older buildings.
So they could never build
with the sophistication
that we see in the older
portions of Machu Picchu.
>> So there's a couple of bits
of evidence that suggest that
there was a culture in Machu
Picchu even before the Inca.
When we look at the
construction styles,
we find that there are three
distinct different kinds
of constructions.
The oldest use these
polygonal-shaped stones
that were surgically
placed without mortar.
It suggested that it was a
fairly advanced culture doing
that.
After that, there was a culture
carving structures straight out
of protruding bedrock that
they could build upon.
Finally, when the
Incas came in, they
were making use of the
structures that were already
there, but the things
that they built
really weren't as
sophisticated or as nicely done
as those two previous cultures.
Even the work of
Brien Foerster when
he's talking to the Indigenous
people of Peru, those people
said, yes, there were cultures
here way before the Inca
in Machu Picchu that were
creating these things
and building.
And then when the
Incas came in, they
built on what was already there.
>> How could these stones
be cut so precisely?
Could there have been a
scientific construction method
used by the ancient pre-diluvian
gods thousands of years
ago to shape these stones?
>> Some scientists are
beginning to consider this,
the poured stone theory for
portions of Machu Picchu,
the pulverizing of Native
stone, mixing with epoxy,
pouring it into molds to
achieve close tolerances between
the stones and also to achieve
very unique shapes between
the stones, where one stone had
to fit precisely to the stone
next to it because no
other shape would fit.
One of the fascinating
things about Machu Picchu
is there are no square corners.
It's very, very feminine.
Feminine-rounded
corners everywhere
on all of the blocks.
And even the Temple of
the Sun is the only temple
in all of Machu Picchu
that has rounded
walls is aligned with the
sun for as a solstice marker,
so we know precisely how it was
used and what it was used for.
And all of this
suggests that this
may have been more
of a ceremonial site,
and a ceremonial site
at least orchestrated
from a feminine perspective.
>> One of the things that seems
evident is that Machu Picchu
was a ritual/sacred site.
And one of the things
they found just outside
of the main aspects
of Machu Picchu
were these ritual baths so that
people could cleanse and purify
themselves because when
you went to Machu Picchu,
you were stepping
on holy ground.
You were stepping in
the land of the gods
or the holy of
holies in this area.
And the ritual
baths really do let
you know how sacred this
land was to these people.
>> When we look at Machu Picchu
and we delve into the history
of that civilization
that lived there,
we find evidence that instead
of being ruled by kings,
it was actually ruled by divine
feminine energy through a noble
woman known as Coya Pasca
who is considered the consort
of the ancient sun
god of the Inca.
And instead of being
based on ritual,
it was based on
ceremony and practices.
It looks like based
on the evidence
of studying that ancient
site, that instead
of being part of a
civilization that lived there,
it was more of a
ceremonial aspect using
the ancient temples to reach
higher divine states of energy
and consciousness.
>> So the question is,
who built Machu Picchu?
Where did it come from?
And this is a big
part of the mystery
because there are
many, many theories.
But the truth is, we
do not know precisely
who built Machu Picchu.
One of the reasons
we don't know is
because there are no written
records in Machu Picchu.
Archeologists today often will
date an archeological site
by carbon dating the
biological data that
is found in that site, the
biological information.
Because we cannot
carbon date stone,
we can only carbon date
something that has been alive--
when a biological organism
is living on Earth,
it is absorbing carbon from the
environment, a very specific
rate of absorption.
And when that organism dies,
that carbon begins to decay
and it begins to release that
carbon at a very specific rate.
And it's based upon these ratios
that scientists can determine
what's called carbon-14 dating.
You cannot do that with a stone.
>> The questions around the
date of construction for these
megalithic foundations remains
this mountain top's biggest
mystery.
But another
architectural mystery
found at this sacred
site may link it
to several other ancient
pre-diluvian cultures,
the triptych.
>> It's one of the design
aspects of Machu Picchu.
It's really interesting.
And it appears to be in the
temple of the three windows.
These three windows
or kind of doorways
are what are called
a triptych temple.
Now this is an
ancient tradition,
which is found all over
the world, where the two
outer windows
appear to represent
the sides of
ourselves, the lower
parts of the human
kind of psyche,
whereas the central
one represents
the divine inner
part of our self.
There's different variations
on this in different cultures,
but this was adopted
throughout the world.
And it's found at many
megalithic sites, many Mayan
sites as well in Mexico.
We find it in Egypt.
We find it in traditions in
India and the Middle East.
And it even got adopted by the
Freemasons and the Rosicrucians
as part of their tradition.
The fact that you're finding
these triptych designs
in many different cultures
is quite interesting
because we find it
not only in places
like Machu Picchu and other
parts of Peru and Bolivia,
but we find it
very significantly
in the world of
the Maya in Mexico.
So is this another
connection proving
there may have been kind
of communication and ideas
and even migrations between
these two ancient cultures?
>> Could these temples found
at Machu Picchu provide a link
to a vast cultural network
shared before the great deluge?
One temple in
particular, the Torreon,
reveals a strong
pre-diluvian signature,
a celestial connection.
>> One of the most important
structures at Machu Picchu is
the Torreon.
Now this is a tower
that's actually
built into the living
rock that would
seem to have been of great
astronomical importance.
In the center of it,
for instance, there
is some kind of raised
rock feature, which
would seem to indicate that
this location was important
even before the building
of this monument,
but it has a door, what's
known as the serpent door, that
would seem to look out
over the local landscape.
But then there are these two
windows, trapezoidal windows,
and this seemed to have
been very specifically
placed so that you could
watch the Pleiades.
And the Pleiades
would seem to have
been a crucially important
constellation in Incan
and pre-Incan tradition.
>> Several sources connect two
ancient civilizations in South
America with the Pleiades,
especially the star Maia.
Could the original builders of
the foundations at Machu Picchu
have been from the star Maia?
>> At Machu Picchu, there's
a particular temple called
the Torreon.
From above, it kind of looks
like a big shape of the letter
P. And it has a
window in it, which is
aligned to the June solstice.
Now in the Southern
hemisphere, that's
the winter solstice based
around the 21st of June.
Obviously, that's different
to the northern hemisphere.
What's also interesting
is that it also
marks and frames the
movement of the Pleiades
as well as it moves
through the sky,
and specifically the star
Maia, the brightest star
of the Pleiades is also
witnessed at this time of year.
During the winter solstice
sunrise in June in Peru,
it lines up with a carved
grooved stone on the floor
in the temple.
And this particular
part of the stone
illuminates not long
after the time of sunrise.
And so you actually
get a marker stone,
which directly illuminates
marking this time of year.
And also, it then
matches the movement
of the Pleiades, which is
going on way distant behind it.
And so there's a lot going
on just in one temple here
and it suggests that
most of the site,
and all the other sites
in this part of the world,
are aligning themselves
measuring very accurately
the movement of the stars.
>> The Torreon is the most
important building at Machu
Picchu.
Underneath the Torreon,
carved out of the cliff,
is a sacred space devoted
to the sun god, Inti.
Now Inti is a very
interesting character
because he's portrayed as a
humanoid figure whose face is
shimmering like the sun.
He's considered a sun god.
And Inti has Pachamama
who, in some instances,
is considered to be his
mother, as well as his consort.
This is something
similar like to what
we see in Egypt with Isis,
Hathor, and her son Horus,
or in the case of Hathor,
her companion Ra, the sun
god, talking about a sun god and
a connection to a goddess who
represents the Earth Mother.
And this is affirmed
with what happened
after the Spanish
conquistadors came into Peru.
When they came in, they
converted the Incas
to Catholicism, to Christianity.
Pachamama, the Earth
goddess, the Earth Mother
became aligned with the Virgin
Mary, the virgin mother.
And her son, of
course, is Jesus.
And Jesus now took on
the attributes of Inti.
So we see this very interesting
correspondence going from Egypt
into Peru and now
with Christianity
being the new level or
iteration of this concept.
>> Another one of the keys
to the use of Machu Picchu is
the cosmological link between
specific portions of Machu
Picchu and the stars,
the Andean night sky.
The highest point
of Machu Picchu,
there is a monument that
is called the Intihuatana.
Intihuatana literally translates
into hitching post of the sun.
And it is believed that
this was a solar marker.
And even today on the equinox,
when the sun is directly
overhead, there
is no shadow cast
and there are very
precise shadows
that are cast on the solstices,
the winter and the summer
solstice in a way that
local people still use
and still recognize
to this time.
But the cosmology goes beyond
just looking at the sun
because now it has been
recently recognized
that there are portions of
Machu Picchu that are the Earth
and mirror to the sky, to
cosmological constants,
including the three stars
in the belt of Orion.
So just the way that we
see on the Giza Plateau
the three pyramids line up
under the belt of Orion,
it appears that
something very similar
is happening in Peru under
the Andean night sky.
>> Could the connections between
the gods of Egypt and those
of the Inca be a clue to
the identity of the ancient
builders of Machu Picchu?
And if so, who could be
responsible for transmitting
these traditions to different
cultures around the world?
One example of these
legendary wise elders
is the Inca deity Viracocha.
The tales from South
America speak of him
as a wise teacher in the
arts of civilization.
>> Viracocha literally
means a tilted plane,
almost like a tilted plane that
you find on a roof to make sure
that the water
falls off the roof,
which makes absolutely
no sense whatsoever,
until you realize that Viracocha
was a master astronomer.
Now an astronomer would
understand that term
because the term
of a tilted plane
literally is the plane of the
Earth relative to the plane
that exists to define
the plane of the ecliptic
in the universe.
So it's the Earth's
relationship to the level
of the plane of the
sky, and that's made up
of two different tilted planes.
So the name Viracocha
literally is a name of someone
who understands the
mechanics of the sky,
and that makes a lot of
sense for an astronomer.
That's the first
part of the equation.
The next part is, who
were his seven helpers?
Because whenever
civilization appears
on the face of the
Earth after the flood,
they appears at the same time
around 8 and 1/2 1,000 BC
and is always one
charismatic leader
who leads seven crafts people,
experts in their field.
And in South America, they
are called the Hihiwapanti.
Now in Aymara, that
means the shining ones.
And at a stroke, you
just linked these people
to the followers of Horus
in Egypt who are also
called the shining ones.
And again, they're described
exactly as an Egyptian would.
So there are seven
people, one of whom
is a woman who carries
the bloodline of the group
and also happens to be the
wife of the charismatic leader.
So I wouldn't for
one moment suggest
that they're the same group
of people that were in Egypt.
I'm suggesting that these
were the same groups that
appeared all around
the world that
belong to the same
academy, following
exactly the same prescription.
And that's what makes Viracocha
and his group so important
because they
brought civilization
to a part of the
world that had been
decimated by a global flood.
And that's what the
local traditions tell us
about this incredible
builder god.
>> Could the building of Machu
Picchu go back beyond ancient
Egypt to possibly the time of
the Mu and Atlantean empires,
making the date of its
inception even earlier?
>> There is a connection
between Egypt and Machu Picchu,
but during the Atlantean
civilization, not before.
All the territory of the
Andes was being taken
care of by the Mu civilization.
So all what was
close to the Pacific
was a Mu construction before--
way before Atlantis came.
As we know today, Machu Picchu,
of course, was not like that.
It was totally different because
the construction was just
the basis of stones,
like platforms,
so people could go and receive.
The Mu civilization
built this basis around
to receive the people
from the skies,
but also to teach to the people
from this Earth about all what
the masters were bringing here.
Machu Picchu before any humans
took power on the territory
was a school for humans to learn
about the art of manifestation.
It was a place between
the territory of the gods
that were the mountains with
the territory of the people
that were the rainforest.
So the people from
the rainforest
would come to this school
and the people from the skies
would come to that
school to teach them,
and then they would
go back to the forest.
So it was a middle point
where everyone would connect.
And Atlantean civilization got
to control Central America.
And from there, going
through the Amazon
and looking for the place
of manifestation that today
would be Peru and Bolivia.
So through the Amazon River,
you reach the valleys of Cuzco,
so you find the school, the
great school of manifestation.
So all this territory
once the Mu civilization
fell down, disappeared, all
these people from Atlantis,
they came to South America,
Central America, North America.
So that's why there was
a connection with Egypt
historically, but also there
was another connection, which
was related to the Old Equator.
The Old Equator was a
line that Atlanteans
were following in
order to access
the main movement of the
magnetic field of the planet.
In that moment, crossing
through Machu Picchu, Nazca,
all the territory of Peru, going
straight through the Amazons,
going through Mauritania,
Cambodia, through India,
and then Egypt.
And so it would connect
that part of the South Peru
with Egypt in a straight line.
They were using this Old Equator
to access the information that
was flowing around the planet.
>> The age of Machu
Picchu truly is older,
so much older than we've
been led to believe.
It's possible, because of
the continuity of knowledge
from civilization
to civilization,
that this could
be linked to some
of the feminine principals of
much earlier times, including
Lemuria, including Atlantis.
So as we begin to understand
these relationships,
the mystery in the Machu
Picchu deepens because we still
don't know where the people that
built Machu Picchu came from--
the technology was
never replicated again--
where they went when
they left, and what
was the purpose of this
magnificent complex
that they left as their
legacy for us today?
>> As with most
pre-diluvian cultures,
Orion and the Pleiades
play a predominant role
in the legendary tales, but
what other celestial secrets may
remain buried in this
majestic mountain?
As the mainstream
continues to find evidence
that the lost city is older
than originally believed,
it is hard to deny
that there are
foundational connections
between this enigmatic site
and cultures around the world.
Were there a group of wise
ones who helped humanity
rebuild after the great flood?
Were there several groups of
wise ones from the same school
of initiation?
And were they
responsible for guiding
humanity back to these
sacred ceremonial sites
to reconnect with the
ancient ways of living,
where connection between
the stars and our planet
was like a tightrope?
But as the connection frayed,
the heroes of humanity
heard the call to go within,
to unite the heart and mind,
and help this planet be a
powerful and positive influence
in our galaxy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]